Fighting in Sudan’s Kordofan kills 32, army recaptures city
Clashes across Sudan’s southern Kordofan region killed at least 32 people between Wednesday and Thursday, medical sources told AFP, as the army said it recaptured the city of Bara, on the road to Khartoum.
Kordofan is currently the fiercest battlefield in the war raging between the army and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces since April 2023.
For all the latest headlines, follow our Google News channel online or via the app.
In the South Kordofan city of Dilling on Thursday, “nine people were killed and 50 injured by artillery fire and drone strikes” on residential neighborhoods, roads and a market, a medical source at the local hospital told AFP.
The army broke a paramilitary siege on Dilling in January.
“The shelling has been very intense, bombs have been falling since the morning and many homes have been destroyed,” a resident of the city told AFP.
Both requested anonymity for fear of retaliation.
The attack comes a day after a drone strike blamed on the RSF killed five and injured seven in Dilling, the medical source said.
Another strike, blamed on the army, killed 18 and wounded 25 in the West Kordofan city of Al-Mojlad on Wednesday, a medic at the local hospital told AFP.
The army has for months pushed back against an RSF offensive in the region, which links the paramilitary group’s strongholds in the western Darfur region to the army-controlled east.
On Thursday, the army said it recaptured the city of Bara, which lies on a key highway linking Khartoum with North Kordofan state capital al-Obeid.
Bara was a key staging post for the RSF to launch attacks on al-Obeid, which it has sought to re-encircle for months.
Tens of thousands have been displaced in recent months, as control of the city repeatedly traded hands.
“Entering Bara is a major turning point and will have repercussions for al-Obeid and all of North Kordofan,” an army official told AFP on condition of anonymity.
First UN mission
A drone strike was later reported on a state public prosecution building in al-Obeid, a local official told AFP, blaming “the RSF militia” for the attack.
Both sides have relied on drone warfare, killing dozens of civilians at a time and drawing frequent condemnation from the United Nations.
The UN said this week its most senior official in Sudan -- resident coordinator Denise Brown -- led the first mission to Dilling.
“Major fighting” broke out there on March 1, paralyzing the city, Brown said in a video message.
“The population can’t move. This is what war is, civilians being caught in the midst of this fighting,” she said, calling for urgent safe aid access.
Across Kordofan, hundreds of thousands are on the brink of starvation.
Since it began, the war has killed tens of thousands and left around 11 million people displaced, creating the world’s largest hunger and displacement crises.
Read more:
Sudan government says drone attacks came ‘from Ethiopian territory’