Saudi Arabia condemns Iran’s attempt to target Turkey, Azerbaijan
Saudi Arabia’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Thursday issued a statement condemning Iran’s attempt to target Turkey and Azerbaijan and said the Islamic Republic’s actions are unjustifiable.
“The Kingdom stresses that these criminal attempts against the two countries, and Iran’s repeated hostile behavior toward the states of the region, reveal an aggressive approach that cannot be justified under any circumstances,” the ministry said in a statement.
For more news on Saudi Arabia, visit our dedicated page.
“This behavior clearly violates international laws, norms, and the principles of good neighborliness, and pushes the region toward further escalation,” the statement added.
Saudi Arabia affirmed “its full solidarity with Turkey and Azerbaijan, both government and people, and stresses the right of the two countries to protect their security, airspace, territorial integrity, and citizens. It also commends the efforts undertaken to avoid escalation and to preserve the security and stability of the region,” the ministry’s statement said.
At least two drones that crossed from Iran into Azerbaijan’s exclave of Nakhichevan, which borders Iran and is separated from mainland Azerbaijan by Armenia, said a foreign ministry statement on Thursday.
Two people were wounded in the attack, according to authorities.
Turkey said that NATO air defenses destroyed a ballistic missile fired from Iran as it headed into Turkish airspace on Wednesday, marking the first time the alliance member has been drawn into the expanding Middle East conflict.
It was unclear where the missile was headed, but a NATO spokesperson said the trans-Atlantic defense bloc condemned Iran’s targeting of Turkey and that it stood firmly with all allies.
Read more:
Saudi Arabia intercepts, destroys three cruise missiles, several drones
Saudi Arabia intercepts drone attack targeting oil refinery
Saudi Arabia says intercepted two cruise missiles, several drones