US confident in Iran war plan, Pentagon chief vows surge in attacks
MACDILL AIR FORCE BASE, Fla. — The US military is 
confident in its operational plan
 against Iran, the top US commander for the Middle East said Thursday, as Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth vowed to “dramatically” increase attacks on the Iranian regime.
US Central Command (CENTCOM) commander Adm. Brad Cooper said American forces anticipated Iran’s capabilities and built their strategy accordingly.
For all the latest headlines, follow our Google News channel online or via the app.
“We’re very familiar with Iran’s capabilities, and as you might imagine, we plan for it right from the outset,” Cooper told Al Arabiya English. “And I feel good about what the plan was.”
Cooper added that US forces continue to adapt as the battlefield evolves. “Like any good organization, we adjust as necessary to meet the environment, and we’ve made those appropriate adjustments,” he said.
CENTCOM chief Adm. Brad Cooper tells Al Arabiya English that he “feels good” about the US military’s capabilities when asked about challenges the US is facing in dealing with Iran’s drone capabilities. 
pic.twitter.com/3d8gXJ1GtA
— Al Arabiya English (@AlArabiya_Eng) 
March 5, 2026
The comments came as Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Washington had asked Kyiv for assistance in countering Iranian one-way attack drones. Al Arabiya English asked Cooper and Hegseth what specifically the United States had requested and whether Iran had demonstrated any unexpected capabilities since the war began six days ago.
Another reporter asked Cooper whether the US was seeking additional interceptor systems from partners. The CENTCOM chief said new capabilities had already been deployed, though he declined to elaborate.
US defenses against drones have long drawn criticism because expensive missiles are often used to shoot down relatively inexpensive drones deployed by Iran and its proxies.
However, Cooper said the US had “kind of gotten on the other side” of that cost imbalance.
“I remember we used to always hear we’re shooting down a $50,000 drone with a $2 million missile,” he said. “These days, we’re spending a lot of time shooting down $100,000 drones with $10,000.”
The US also deployed a new kamikaze drone unit for the first time during the Iran operation. The drones were developed after years of the US capturing and reverse-engineering Iranian models.
“We captured it, pulled the guts out, sent it back to America, put a little Made in America on it, brought it back here, and we’re shooting it at good targets,” Cooper quipped.
Part of the broader campaign, dubbed Operation Epic Fury, aims to dismantle Iran’s ballistic missile capabilities and naval forces, officials have said. 
“We are seeking to… level Iran’s ballistic missile industrial base,” Cooper told reporters during a briefing at CENTCOM headquarters in Tampa, Florida. “As we transition to the next phase of this operation, we will systemically dismantle Iran’s missile production capability for the future.”
Cooper said the US bomber force had struck nearly 200 targets deep inside Iran over the past 72 hours, including sites around Tehran.
He also revealed that just an hour before the briefing, B-2 stealth bombers dropped dozens of 2,000-pound penetrating bombs on deeply buried ballistic missile launchers.
Cooper said US forces had also targeted Iran’s equivalent of Space Command.
According to Cooper, Iranian attacks have significantly decreased since the start of the war. Ballistic missile strikes have fallen by 90 percent since the first day of fighting, while drone attacks are down 83 percent.
The US military has also struck 30 Iranian naval vessels.
“And in just the last few hours, we hit an Iranian drone carrier ship, roughly the size of a World War II aircraft carrier. And as we speak, it’s on fire,” Cooper said.
Hegseth vows increased firepower
 
Standing alongside Cooper, Hegseth said the level of US firepower directed at Iran, including over Tehran, “is about to surge dramatically.”
He pointed to additional partner nations, including the United Kingdom, now allowing US forces to use their bases abroad to support the campaign.
Hegseth added that Iran appeared to be betting the United States would not be able to sustain the pace of operations, which he said was “a really bad miscalculation for the IRGC in Iran.”
The defense secretary insisted the US had ample supplies of both offensive and defensive munitions and could sustain the campaign indefinitely.
As Iranian capabilities degrade, he said, US military pressure will only intensify.
“We have only just begun to fight,” Hegseth said.
“If you think you’ve seen something, just wait. The amount of combat power that’s still flowing, that’s still coming, that we’ll be able to project over Iran, is multiples of what it currently is right now.”
Read more: 
Trump demands role in choosing next Iran leader, says Mojtaba Khamenei ‘unacceptable’