Italy to send air-defense aid to Gulf countries: PM
Italy will send air-defense assistance to Gulf countries hit by Iranian strikes launched in retaliation for US-Israeli attacks, Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni said Thursday.
Separately, Defense Minister Guido Crosetto told parliament Thursday that Italy would send, along with France, Spain, and the Netherlands, naval assets to defend EU member Cyprus “in coming days.”
For all the latest headlines, follow our Google News channel online or via the app.
In an interview with RTL 102.5 radio, Meloni said “Italy, like the UK, France and Germany, intends to send aid to the Gulf countries.
“We are clearly talking about defense, air defense, not just because they are friendly nations but because there are tens of thousands of Italians in that area and around 2,000 Italian soldiers that we must protect,” she added.
“And the Gulf is vital for energy supplies for Italy and Europe.”
Addressing parliament Thursday morning, Foreign Minister Antonio Tajani explained that some strategic Gulf nations “have formally requested Italy's support to strengthen their air defense capabilities against attacks coming from Iran.”
“Tens of thousands of Italians, civilians and military personnel” were in those regions, he said.
Thus far, the foreign ministry had helped about 10,000 Italians to leave the areas at risk, he said.
Crosetto, while also addressing parliament, specified that the assistance sent to Gulf nations would be “air defense, anti-drone and anti-missile systems.”
He said that in Italy, he had given orders to raise to its maximum level protection of the country's air and missile defense network, in coordination with NATO.
Meloni was also asked about the potential involvement in the war of the three US military bases in Italy.
She said they already had authorization for “non-bombing operations,” and any change in this would have to be considered by her government, and likely the Italian parliament.
But “to date, we have no requests in this regard,” she added, a statement confirmed by Crosetto to parliament.
Read more:
Explosions heard in Doha, Manama: Report
French Rafale fighter jets downed Iranian drones targeting UAE: FM