Trump demands role in choosing next Iran leader, says Mojtaba Khamenei ‘unacceptable’
US President Donald Trump on Thursday insisted he should have a role in picking Iran’s next supreme leader after the killing of Ali Khamenei, whose son he said he found unacceptable.
“Khamenei’s son is a lightweight. I have to be involved in the appointment, like with Delcy,” Trump told Axios in an interview, drawing a comparison to Venezuela, where interim president Delcy Rodriguez has cooperated with him under threat of violence after the United States ousted her boss, Nicolas Maduro.
For all the latest headlines follow our Google News channel online or via the app.
Trump told the news outlet that the United States would likely return to war within five years without a favorable leader in Iran.
“Khamenei’s son is unacceptable to me. We want someone that will bring harmony and peace to Iran,” Trump was quoted saying by the news outlet.
It was unclear in what way Trump would be able to take a role in Iran’s selection of a new supreme leader, a decision made by an assembly of senior Shia Muslim clerics mostly staunchly opposed to the United States.
Ali Khamenei, who ruled Iran since 1989 with hardline policies that included repression at home and confrontation with neighboring countries, was killed Saturday in an Israeli strike as Israel and the United States opened war.
His son, 
Mojtaba Khamenei
, is considered one of the contenders to succeed his father, who was only the second supreme leader after revolutionary leader Ruhollah Khomeini.
In Venezuela, Trump ordered a deadly January 3 attack in which US forces snatched Maduro, a longtime US nemesis. 
Rather than backing the opposition long championed by the United States, Trump has said he has been pleased by Rodriguez, who was Maduro’s vice president but has cooperated on key US demands, notably on benefiting oil companies.
She is doing so under Trump’s threat of violence if she does not do what he wants, particularly on access to natural resources.
With AFP
Read more: 
Who could replace Khamenei? Iran weighs possible successors after his death